Welcome back. You'll now see
the overall structure of
the algorithm you'll be
implementing this week.
You'll see how you can use
your initialized words
vectors to predict
new word vectors.
Let's dive in and see
how you can do this.
I'll start with the
overall process for
machine learning model-based
word embeddings,
and then move on to how it's
instantiated for the
continuous bag-of-words model.
As a reminder, to
create word embeddings,
you need the corpus and
the machine learning model
that performs a learning task.
One byproduct of
the learning task
is a set of word embeddings.
You also need a way to
transform the corpus into
a representation that is
suited to the machine
learning model.
In the case of the continuous
bag-of-words model,
the objective of the
task is to predict
a missing word based on
the surrounding words.
The rationale is that if
two unique words
are both frequently
surrounded by a similar sets of
words when used in
various sentences,
then those two words tend to
be related in their meaning.
Another way to say this is that
they are related semantically.
For example, in the sentence,
the little something is barking.
With a large enough corpus,
the model will learn
to predict that
the missing word is
related to dogs,
such as the word dog
itself or puppy,
hound, terrier, and so on.
So the model will end up learning
the meaning of words
based on their context.
So how do you use
the corpus to create
training data for
the prediction task?
Let's say that the
corpus is the sentence,
"I am happy because
I am learning."
You can ignore the
punctuation for now.
For a given word of a
corpus, happy, for example,
which I'll call the center word,
I'll define the context
words as four words.
The two words before
the center word,
and the two words after it.
I'll note this as C equals
two for the two words
before or after.
Where C is called
the half size of
the context and it is a
hyper-parameter of the model.
You could use another
number of words.
This is just an example.
So here, the context
words for the center word
happy are "I am", "because I".
Let's also define the
window as the count
of the center word plus
the context words.
So here, the size
of the window is
equal to one center word plus two
contexts words before plus two
contexts words after
which equals to five.
To train the model,
you will need a set of examples.
Each example will be made of
context words and the center
word to be predicted.
In this first example,
the window is, "I am
happy because I",
and the model will take
the context words
"I am because I",
and should predict the
center word "happy".
You can now slide the
window by one word.
The next training
example that you have
is "am happy something I am".
The input to the model will be
the context words "am happy
I am" and the target center
word to predict is because.
Sliding the window by one again,
the model will take happy
because I'm learning,
and should predict
the targets "I".
This is basically how the
continuous bag-of-words
model works.
As you can see in the
model architecture
from the original paper,
context words as inputs and
center words as outputs.
To recap, you just learned how
the continuous bag-of-words
model broadly works.
For the rest of the week,
you'll focus on preparing
a training datasets
starting from a corpus,
and then you'll dive into the
math powering the models.